stacks/core/004_add_config.md, before:

# Add Configuration Support

Add `vibec.json` loading to vibec.js, merging with existing CLI and env vars (priority: CLI > env > config > defaults):
- Load `vibec.json` from root if present, parse as JSON. Throw error if malformed JSON.
- Merge options with existing CLI args and env vars, using defaults only for unset values.
- Convert `VIBEC_STACKS` to array if string.
- Validate: `retries` ≥ 0, `pluginTimeout` > 0, log errors with `log` utility.
- Ensure proper JavaScript syntax: quoted strings, closed objects.

## Config Options (vibec.json)
- `workdir`: String, working directory. Default: `.`.
- `stacks`: Array of stacks (e.g., `["core", "tests"]`). Default: `["core"]`.
- `noOverwrite`: Boolean, no overwrites. Default: `false`.
- `dryRun`: Boolean, simulate only. Default: `false`.
- `start`: Numeric value specifying the starting stage. Default: `null`.
- `end`: Numeric value specifying the ending stage. Default: `null`.
- `apiUrl`: String, LLM API URL. Default: inherited from vibec.js.
- `apiKey`: String, LLM API key. Default: inherited from vibec.js. Not recommended for config vs env var.
- `apiModel`: String, LLM model. Default: inherited from vibec.js.
- `testCmd`: String, test command. Default: `null`.
- `retries`: Integer, retry count. Default: `0`.
- `pluginTimeout`: Integer, plugin timeout in ms. Default: `5000`.

## Environment Variables
- `VIBEC_WORKDIR`: Working directory path.
- `VIBEC_STACKS`: Comma-separated stacks (e.g., `core,tests`).
- `VIBEC_NO_OVERWRITE`: `true`/`false`.
- `VIBEC_DRY_RUN`: `true`/`false`.
- `VIBEC_START`: Numeric stage value.
- `VIBEC_END`: Numeric stage value.
- `VIBEC_API_URL`: URL string.
- `VIBEC_API_KEY`: API key string.
- `VIBEC_API_MODEL`: Model string.
- `VIBEC_TEST_CMD`: Command string.
- `VIBEC_RETRIES`: Integer string (e.g., `2`).
- `VIBEC_PLUGIN_TIMEOUT`: Integer string (e.g., `5000`).

## Example vibec.json
```json
{
  "stacks": ["core", "tests"],
  "testCmd": "npm test",
  "retries": 2,
  "pluginTimeout": 5000,
  "apiUrl": "https://api.openai.com/v1",
  "apiModel": "gpt-4"
}


## Context: bin/vibec.js
## Output: bin/vibec.js

Commit message:

Refactor bootstrap and output paths to use output/bootstrap and output/current
This commit improves the project's file generation and bootstrap process by:
- Moving generated files to output/bootstrap during initial generation
- Updating bootstrap.sh and bootstrap.js to use new output paths
- Modifying package.json to reference new bootstrap script location
- Updating prompts in related markdown files to reflect new file paths

The changes ensure a cleaner separation between bootstrap and current working files, making the project structure more predictable and organized.

stacks/core/004_add_config.md, after:

# Add Configuration Support

Add `vibec.json` loading to vibec.js, merging with existing CLI and env vars (priority: CLI > env > config > defaults):
- Load `vibec.json` from root if present, parse as JSON. Throw error if malformed JSON.
- Merge options with existing CLI args and env vars, using defaults only for unset values.
- Convert `VIBEC_STACKS` to array if string.
- Validate: `retries` ≥ 0, `pluginTimeout` > 0, log errors with `log` utility.
- Update `parseArgs` to handle `vibec.json` and merge with CLI and env vars. It should take `process.env` and `vibecJson` as arguments in addition to `process.argv`.`
- Throw error if `vibec.json` is malformed JSON.

## Config Options (vibec.json)
- `workdir`: String, working directory. Default: `.`.
- `stacks`: Array of stacks (e.g., `["core", "tests"]`). Default: `["core"]`.
- `noOverwrite`: Boolean, no overwrites. Default: `false`.
- `dryRun`: Boolean, simulate only. Default: `false`.
- `start`: Numeric value specifying the starting stage. Default: `null`.
- `end`: Numeric value specifying the ending stage. Default: `null`.
- `apiUrl`: String, LLM API URL. Default: inherited from vibec.js.
- `apiKey`: String, LLM API key. Default: inherited from vibec.js. Not recommended for config vs env var.
- `apiModel`: String, LLM model. Default: inherited from vibec.js.
- `testCmd`: String, test command. Default: `null`.
- `retries`: Integer, retry count. Default: `0`.
- `pluginTimeout`: Integer, plugin timeout in ms. Default: `5000`.

## Environment Variables
- `VIBEC_WORKDIR`: Working directory path.
- `VIBEC_STACKS`: Comma-separated stacks (e.g., `core,tests`).
- `VIBEC_NO_OVERWRITE`: `true`/`false`.
- `VIBEC_DRY_RUN`: `true`/`false`.
- `VIBEC_START`: Numeric stage value.
- `VIBEC_END`: Numeric stage value.
- `VIBEC_API_URL`: URL string.
- `VIBEC_API_KEY`: API key string.
- `VIBEC_API_MODEL`: Model string.
- `VIBEC_TEST_CMD`: Command string.
- `VIBEC_RETRIES`: Integer string (e.g., `2`).
- `VIBEC_PLUGIN_TIMEOUT`: Integer string (e.g., `5000`).

## Example vibec.json
```json
{
  "stacks": ["core", "tests"],
  "testCmd": "npm test",
  "retries": 2,
  "pluginTimeout": 5000,
  "apiUrl": "https://api.openai.com/v1",
  "apiModel": "gpt-4"
}


## Context: bin/vibec.js
## Output: bin/vibec.js
